README.md, before:

# Portfolio Overview
### By Spencer Peters

![Project Image](https://github.com/SpencerTP31/PHY_2200_Portfolio/blob/main/WebbSchoolLogo.png)

> Webb School of Engineering at High Point University

---

### Introduction
This portfolio is my three favorite projects I did throughout my Computational Physics Course (PHY-2200) at High Point University. Throughout this class as a computer science major I was able to incorporate things I had learned throughout my computer science classes and use them to create physics models. The three projects I've decided to showcase are, Magnus Effect on a golf shot, the Rossler and Lorenz Model to dive deeper into Chaotic Behaviors, and lastly using Mel Spectograms in conjunction with AI to create a vowel classifier. The links below will bring you to a complete description of each in this README

#### Descriptions
- [Magnus Effect](#magnus-effect)
- [Rossler and Lorenz Model](#rossler-and-lorenz-model)
- [Vowel Classifier](#vowel-classifier)

#### Links to Code/Folders
- [Magnus Effect Code](https://github.com/SpencerTP31/PHY_2200_Portfolio/tree/main/Magnus_Effect)
- [Rossler and Lorenz Model Code](https://github.com/SpencerTP31/PHY_2200_Portfolio/tree/main/Lorenz_Rossler)
- [Vowel Classifier Code](https://github.com/SpencerTP31/PHY_2200_Portfolio/tree/main/Vowel_Classifier)



---

## Magnus Effect

Creating ReadMe's for your Github repository can be tedious.  I hope this template can save you time and effort as well as provide you with some consistency across your projects.

[Go to Project](https://github.com/SpencerTP31/PHY_2200_Portfolio/tree/main/Magnus_Effect)

[Back To The Top](#portfolio-overview)

--- 

## Rossler and Lorenz Model

Creating ReadMe's for your Github repository can be tedious.  I hope this template can save you time and effort as well as provide you with some consistency across your projects.

[Go to Project](https://github.com/SpencerTP31/PHY_2200_Portfolio/tree/main/Lorenz_Rossler)

[Back To The Top](#portfolio-overview)

---

## Vowel Classifier

Creating ReadMe's for your Github repository can be tedious.  I hope this template can save you time and effort as well as provide you with some consistency across your projects.

[Go to Project](https://github.com/SpencerTP31/PHY_2200_Portfolio/tree/main/Vowel_Classifier)

[Back To The Top](#portfolio-overview)

---
#### Technologies

- VPython
- Jupyter Notebook
- Conda 
- Pytorch
- Pyaudio
- Many other python libraries


---



## License

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2021 Spencer Peters

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

[Back To The Top](#portfolio-overview)

---

## Author Info

- Spencer Peters
- speters1@highpoint.edu

[Back To The Top](#portfolio-overview)

Commit message:

My poor spelling was fixed in the README

README.md, after:

# Portfolio Overview
### By Spencer Peters

![Project Image](https://github.com/SpencerTP31/PHY_2200_Portfolio/blob/main/WebbSchoolLogo.png)

> Webb School of Engineering at High Point University

---

### Introduction
This portfolio is my three favorite projects I did throughout my Computational Physics Course (PHY-2200) at High Point University. Throughout this class as a computer science major I was able to incorporate things I had learned throughout my computer science classes and use them to create physics models. The three projects I've decided to showcase are, Magnus Effect on a golf shot, the Rossler and Lorenz Model to dive deeper into Chaotic Behaviors, and lastly using Mel Spectograms in conjunction with AI to create a vowel classifier. The links below will bring you to a complete description of each in this README

#### Descriptions
- [Magnus Effect](#magnus-effect)
- [Rossler and Lorenz Model](#rossler-and-lorenz-model)
- [Vowel Classifier](#vowel-classifier)

#### Links to Code/Folders
- [Magnus Effect Code](https://github.com/SpencerTP31/PHY_2200_Portfolio/tree/main/Magnus_Effect)
- [Rossler and Lorenz Model Code](https://github.com/SpencerTP31/PHY_2200_Portfolio/tree/main/Lorenz_Rossler)
- [Vowel Classifier Code](https://github.com/SpencerTP31/PHY_2200_Portfolio/tree/main/Vowel_Classifier)



---

## Magnus Effect

In this project, I investigated the Magnus Effect on a golf ball during its flight. This was one of my most important discoveries during this class as I decided to go off the beaten path and research golf ball flights. I originally was going to model a figure that is shown in the book. When writing the code for this figure I kept getting a slightly different result which leads me to investigate and realize the author had not provided us with his air density and air resistance leading me to infer those. For a more detailed explanation see this [file](https://github.com/SpencerTP31/PHY_2200_Portfolio/blob/main/Magnus_Effect/02-project-peters.ipynb).

[Go to Project](https://github.com/SpencerTP31/PHY_2200_Portfolio/tree/main/Magnus_Effect)

[Back To The Top](#portfolio-overview)

--- 

## Rossler and Lorenz Model

In this project, I was modeling the Lorenz model to see at what point a chaotic behavior was found. While doing this I stumbled upon the Rossler model which is a single point attractor that also has a chaotic state. The big difference between these two models is the fact that the Lorenz model has two fixed points while the Rossler model only has one fixed point. A more detailed explanation can be found [here](https://github.com/HPUPhysics-PHY2200-S21/03-project-SpencerTP31/blob/main/03-project-peters.ipynb).

[Go to Project](https://github.com/SpencerTP31/PHY_2200_Portfolio/tree/main/Lorenz_Rossler)

[Back To The Top](#portfolio-overview)

---

## Vowel Classifier

Lastly is a final project done by myself and another classmate of mine Anthony, his GitHub can be found here, [Anthony Demattos](https://github.com/demattosanthony). In this project, we wanted to investigate how Fourier Transforms were used in speech recognition AI. While doing this we came upon the discovery that Mel Spectrograms were the better way of doing this as they provide a more human-like "sound" in the form of a spectrogram. Combined with a convolutional neural network we can take a user's voice and determine what vowel they have said. All the files and a more detailed explanation can be found [here](https://github.com/SpencerTP31/PHY_2200_Portfolio/blob/main/Vowel_Classifier/vowel_classifier.ipynb).

[Go to Project](https://github.com/SpencerTP31/PHY_2200_Portfolio/tree/main/Vowel_Classifier)

[Back To The Top](#portfolio-overview)

---
#### Technologies

- VPython
- Jupyter Notebook
- Conda 
- Pytorch
- Pyaudio
- Many other python libraries


---



## License

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2021 Spencer Peters

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

[Back To The Top](#portfolio-overview)

---

## Author Info

- Spencer Peters
- speters1@highpoint.edu

[Back To The Top](#portfolio-overview)
